Description:

The 454 pipeline streamlines the QIIME package and allows easy
clustering and identification of environmental 454 sequence reads.


Scripts:

This project contains the following scripts:

 - pipeline.py			The main script that takes the user
				files and executes the other scripts
				and programs.
 
 - tag_fasta_files.py		When dealing with multiple datasets,
				each set can be tagged to identify the
				and compare different datasets during
				downstream analysis.

 - pick_otu_rep.py		It takes the OTU output files from
				QIIME's 'pick_otus' script and based
				on the users settings it picks a
				representative sequence for each cluster.

 - custom_blast_db.py		Uses the NCBI-blast+ program to set up
				a blast database based on a reference
				set and then blasts a set of sequences
				against the database to identify these.

 - blast.py			Identifies sequences by blasting them
				against the genbank database.

 - cluster_freq.py		When dealing with multiple input files
				it takes the clustering results and
				compares how much each dataset has
				contributed to a certain cluster.
				
 - cluster_stat.py		Takes the cluster OTU file and retrieve
 				basic information about the number of 
 				sequences used, number of cluster and 
 				the size of the clusters.

Requirements:

This project require the following the following software / tools:

 - Python 2.7 or 3.2		The latest version of either python 2.*
				or 3.* are needed to support the modules
				used in the scripts. (most notably the
				'argparse' module).

 - Biopython 1.58		Biopython is used to deal with fasta
				sequences, multiple sequence alignments
				and genbank files.

 - QIIME pipeline		This project uses the QIIME pipeline
				to cluster the sequences into OTUs. The
				pipeline uses the 'pick_otus' script
				and modules to cluster sequences with
				a wide array of cluster programs.

 - NCBI-Blast-2.2.25+		Blast+ is used to identify sequences
				with a custom made refrence database.

 - muscle3.8.31			With muscle multiple sequence alignments
				are made of the cluster results.
